# 50_interview_faq

[50_interview_questions](http://www.noah.org/wiki/50_interview_questions)

  50 interview questions

  1. Tell me about yourself: The most often asked question in interviews. You
  need to have a short statement prepared in your mind. Be careful that it does
  not sound rehearsed. Limit it to work-related items unless instructed
  otherwise. Talk about things you have done and jobs you have held that relate
  to the position you are interviewing for. Start with the item farthest back
  and work up to the present.

  2. Why did you leave your last job? Stay positive regardless of the
  circumstances. Never refer to a major problem with management and never speak
  ill of supervisors, co-workers or the organization. If you do, you will be
  the one looking bad. Keep smiling and talk about leaving for a positive
  reason such as an opportunity, a chance to do something special or other
  forward-looking reasons.

  3. What experience do you have in this field? Speak about specifics that
  relate to the position you are applying for. If you do not have specific
  experience, get as close as you can.

  4. Do you consider yourself successful? You should always answer yes and
  briefly explain why. A good explanation is that you have set goals, and you
  have met some and are on track to achieve the others.

  5. What do co-workers say about you? Be prepared with a quote or two from
  co-workers. Either a specific statement or a paraphrase will work. Jill
  Clark, a co-worker at Smith Company, always said I was the hardest workers
  she had ever known. It is as powerful as Jill having said it at the interview
  herself.

  6. What do you know about this organization? This question is one reason to
  do some research on the organization before the interview. Find out where
  they have been and where they are going. What are the current issues and who
  are the major players?

  7. What have you done to improve your knowledge in the last year? Try to
  include improvement activities that relate to the job. A wide variety of
  activities can be mentioned as positive self-improvement. Have some good ones
  handy to mention.

  8. Are you applying for other jobs? Be honest but do not spend a lot of time
  in this area. Keep the focus on this job and what you can do for this
  organization. Anything else is a distraction.

  9. Why do you want to work for this organization? This may take some thought
  and certainly, should be based on the research you have done on the
  organization. Sincerity is extremely important here and will easily be
  sensed. Relate it to your long-term career goals.

  10. Do you know anyone who works for us? Be aware of the policy on relatives
  working for the organization. This can affect your answer even though they
  asked about friends not relatives. Be careful to mention a friend only if
  they are well thought of.

  11. What kind of salary do you need? A loaded question. A nasty little game
  that you will probably lose if you answer first. So, do not answer it.
  Instead, say something like, That’s a tough question. Can you tell me the
  range for this position? In most cases, the interviewer, taken off guard,
  will tell you. If not, say that it can depend on the details of the job. Then
  give a wide range.

  12. Are you a team player? You are, of course, a team player. Be sure to have
  examples ready. Specifics that show you often perform for the good of the
  team rather than for yourself are good evidence of your team attitude. Do not
  brag, just say it in a matter-of-fact tone. This is a key point.

  13. How long would you expect to work for us if hired? Specifics here are not
  good. Something like this should work: I’d like it to be a long time. Or As
  long as we both feel I’m doing a good job.

  14. Have you ever had to fire anyone? How did you feel about that? This is
  serious. Do not make light of it or in any way seem like you like to fire
  people. At the same time, you will do it when it is the right thing to do.
  When it comes to the organization versus the individual who has created a
  harmful situation, you will protect the organization. Remember firing is not
  the same as layoff or reduction in force.

  Less is more. for the benfit of organization.

  15. What is your philosophy towards work? The interviewer is not looking for
  a long or flowery dissertation here. Do you have strong feelings that the job
  gets done? Yes. That’s the type of answer that works best here. Short and
  positive, showing a benefit to the organization.

  Make a goal, and how it's done.

  16. If you had enough money to retire right now, would you? Answer yes if you
  would. But since you need to work, this is the type of work you prefer. Do
  not say yes if you do not mean it.

  17. Have you ever been asked to leave a position? If you have not, say no. If
  you have, be honest, brief and avoid saying negative things about the people
  or organization involved.

  18. Explain how you would be an asset to this organization You should be
  anxious for this question. It gives you a chance to highlight your best
  points as they relate to the position being discussed. Give a little advance
  thought to this relationship.

  Share life. Growth is the only way.

  19. Why should we hire you? Point out how your assets meet what the
  organization needs. Do not mention any other candidates to make a comparison.

  Be needed by each other.

  20. Tell me about a suggestion you have made Have a good one ready. Be sure
  and use a suggestion that was accepted and was then considered successful.
  One related to the type of work applied for is a real plus.

  Packing use bash
  Updating use bash

  21. What irritates you about co-workers? This is a trap question. Think real
  hard but fail to come up with anything that irritates you. A short statement
  that you seem to get along with folks is great.

  22. What is your greatest strength? Numerous answers are good, just stay
  positive. A few good examples: Your ability to prioritize, Your
  problem-solving skills, Your ability to work under pressure, Your ability to
  focus on projects, Your professional expertise, Your leadership skills, Your
  positive attitude

  23. Tell me about your dream job. Stay away from a specific job. You cannot
  win. If you say the job you are contending for is it, you strain credibility.
  If you say another job is it, you plant the suspicion that you will be
  dissatisfied with this position if hired. The best is to stay generic and say
  something like: A job where I love the work, like the people, can contribute
  and can’t wait to get to work.

  如同你问我，什么是有意义的事？
  许三多说，有意义就是活着。
  一个公司的老兵说，来自生存的压力比梦想更容易创造价值，来得更直接。

  24. Why do you think you would do well at this job? Give several reasons and
  include skills, experience and interest.

  25. What are you looking for in a job? See answer # 23

  26. What kind of person would you refuse to work with? Do not be trivial. It
  would take disloyalty to the organization, violence or lawbreaking to get you
  to object. Minor objections will label you as a whiner.

  27. What is more important to you: the money or the work? Money is always
  important, but the work is the most important. There is no better answer.

  28. What would your previous supervisor say your strongest point is? There
  are numerous good possibilities: Loyalty, Energy, Positive attitude,
  Leadership, Team player, Expertise, Initiative, Patience, Hard work,
  Creativity, Problem solver

  29. Tell me about a problem you had with a supervisor Biggest trap of all.
  This is a test to see if you will speak ill of your boss. If you fall for it
  and tell about a problem with a former boss, you may well below the interview
  right there. Stay positive and develop a poor memory about any trouble with a
  supervisor.

  30. What has disappointed you about a job? Don’t get trivial or negative.
  Safe areas are few but can include: Not enough of a challenge. You were laid
  off in a reduction Company did not win a contract, which would have given you
  more responsibility.

  31. Tell me about your ability to work under pressure. You may say that you
  thrive under certain types of pressure. Give an example that relates to the
  type of position applied for.

  32. Do your skills match this job or another job more closely? Probably this
  one. Do not give fuel to the suspicion that you may want another job more
  than this one.

  33. What motivates you to do your best on the job? This is a personal trait
  that only you can say, but good examples are: Challenge, Achievement,
  Recognition

  34. Are you willing to work overtime? Nights? Weekends? This is up to you. Be
  totally honest.

  35. How would you know you were successful on this job? Several ways are good
  measures: You set high standards for yourself and meet them. Your outcomes
  are a success.Your boss tell you that you are successful

  36. Would you be willing to relocate if required? You should be clear on this
  with your family prior to the interview if you think there is a chance it may
  come up. Do not say yes just to get the job if the real answer is no. This
  can create a lot of problems later on in your career. Be honest at this point
  and save yourself future grief.

  37. Are you willing to put the interests of the organization ahead of your
  own? This is a straight loyalty and dedication question. Do not worry about
  the deep ethical and philosophical implications. Just say yes.

  38. Describe your management style. Try to avoid labels. Some of the more
  common labels, like progressive, salesman or consensus, can have several
  meanings or descriptions depending on which management expert you listen to.
  The situational style is safe, because it says you will manage according to
  the situation, instead of one size fits all.

  39. What have you learned from mistakes on the job? Here you have to come up
  with something or you strain credibility. Make it small, well intentioned
  mistake with a positive lesson learned. An example would be working too far
  ahead of colleagues on a project and thus throwing coordination off.

  40. Do you have any blind spots? Trick question. If you know about blind
  spots, they are no longer blind spots. Do not reveal any personal areas of
  concern here. Let them do their own discovery on your bad points. Do not hand
  it to them.

  自己的盲点

  41. If you were hiring a person for this job, what would you look for? Be
  careful to mention traits that are needed and that you have.

  42. Do you think you are overqualified for this position? Regardless of your
  qualifications, state that you are very well qualified for the position.

  43. How do you propose to compensate for your lack of experience? First, if
  you have experience that the interviewer does not know about, bring that up:
  Then, point out (if true) that you are a hard working quick learner.

  44. What qualities do you look for in a boss? Be generic and positive. Safe
  qualities are knowledgeable, a sense of humor, fair, loyal to subordinates
  and holder of high standards. All bosses think they have these traits.

  对员工的忠诚

  45. Tell me about a time when you helped resolve a dispute between others.
  Pick a specific incident. Concentrate on your problem solving technique and
  not the dispute you settled.

  解决争论

  46. What position do you prefer on a team working on a project? Be honest. If
  you are comfortable in different roles, point that out.

  多面手

  47. Describe your work ethic. Emphasize benefits to the organization. Things
  like, determination to get the job done and work hard but enjoy your work are
  good.

  职业道德
  专业主义

  48. What has been your biggest professional disappointment? Be sure that you
  refer to something that was beyond your control. Show acceptance and no
  negative feelings.

  沮丧
  包容

  49. Tell me about the most fun you have had on the job. Talk about having fun
  by accomplishing something for the organization.

  成就感源自哪里？如同yf说，源自老板的认可。

  50. Do you have any questions for me? Always have some questions prepared.
  Questions prepared where you will be an asset to the organization are good.
  How soon will I be able to be productive? and What type of projects will I be
  able to assist on? are examples.

  Powered by MediaWiki
  This page was last modified on 18 January 2008, at 01:48. This page has been
  accessed 1,342 times. Content is available under Copyright. Privacy policy
  About Noah.org Disclaimers
  Quantcast
